Today, on Spyware 2.0: "Privacy"
When we think of a private conversation,
we think of it taking place between two people.
And that's how it should be.
Just between you and the person you're having
the private conversation with.
So it should be the same on Facebook.
But is it?
When you send private messages to your friend
on Facebook,
it definitely feels like
you're having a private conversation.
But you're not.
Because you're having the conversation
in Facebook's home.
It's the home of a total stranger
who pays the rent by spying on you.
Here's how private messages work
on Facebook:
First: you tell this stranger…
what you want him to tell your friend.
The stranger takes notes,
and never forgets,
and, finally, he relays your message to your friend.
So when Facebook says "private",
what they *really* mean is "public."
In the novel '1984', George Orwell called this "doublethink."
To understand what Facebook, Google or Twitter mean
when they say private,
we have to engage in doublethink.
So, who is this stranger that
we're so willing to share our most personal conversations with?
Let's meet the person behind Facebook,
its founder, Mark Zuckerberg.
In 2010. in an interview with the New Yorker,
Zuckerberg admitted that he had the following IM conversation
with a friend at Harvard
in the early days of Facebook.
Zuck says:
Yea so if you ever need any info about anyone at harvard
just ask
i have over 4000 emails, pictures, addresses, SMS
his friend asks:
what!? how'd you manage that one?
To which Zuck replies:
people just submitted it
i don't know why
they "trust me"
And here's the best bit,
"dumb fucks."
So what kind of business does someone
build who thinks of people
as "dumb fucks"?
A business that mines you for your personal information,
and profiles you.
A business that tries to understand you
as deeply as possible because
that's the insight that it sells to its customers.
A business that studies and analyses you 24/7
to understand how best to manipulate your behaviour.
So, the emotional contagion experiment
that Facebook published which caused so much uproar
wasn't a mistake.
The only mistake Facebook made
was to publish it.
It was business as usual
for a business where you're the quarry being mined,
the livestock being farmed,
the lab rats being studied.
This is a predator-prey relationship.
And *you're* the prey.
And companies like Facebook
share their insight into your life,
not just with their customers,
but also with governments.
Governments love companies like Facebook and Google
because they store information about hundreds of millions of people
in one easy-to-reach location.
And, since the information you voluntarily hand over
to a third party is not under the same protections
under the law,
it's both convenient and cheap for the government
to ask Facebook for your data.
Needless to say, none of this bodes well
for the future of our human rights, our fundamental freedoms,
or the health of our democracy.
And that's why we started we started Ind.ie,
to create beautiful independent alternatives
to the spyware companies like Facebook and Google.